---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

I am a PhD student in the Darby Lab in the Institute of Integrative Biology, University of Liverpool.


![Photo](/images/about_pic.png)


### Research Interests

My PhD research is focused on the genetics of mosquito sex
determination, using bioinformatic and synthetic biology approaches to
understand the structure and content of the _Aedes aegypti_ Y
chromosome-like sex-determining region known as the M locus. I am also
interested in global health and the control of vector-borne diseases,
and the potential to apply genomics research to these topics. The
ultimate aim of the project is to gain an understanding of which genes
are responsible for determining whether _Aedes aegypti_ mosquitoes
become male or female, and what other genomic features are involved in
maintaining sex-specific chromosomal regions. In addition to being
interesting from an evolutionary point of view, this could potentially
be applied to existing and novel control strategies targeting this
important arbovirus vector (for instance, enhancing genetic control
techniques by facilitating sex-specific effects).

### Academic background

I gained my BA in Biological Sciences at the University in Oxford in
2011, where I developed a strong interest in evolutionary biology and
entomology. I conducted my honours research project on spider
behavioural ecology in the Oxford Silk Group in the Department of
Zoology, and subsequently took up a short research assistant
position there after completing my degree to expand my undergraduate research.

After working for around 18 months as a teacher, I undertook an MPhil in
the Hughes Lab in the School of Life Sciences, University of Sussex. My
project investigated the effects of parasites on the behaviour of social
insects, and furthered my interest in the ecological and evolutionary
interactions between parasites, symbionts and insect hosts.

After this, I began my PhD at Liverpool and made the switch to genomics,
which has fostered an increasing interest in bioinformatics and computational
biology. The PhD also included a placement at the biotechnology company
Oxitec, where I performed genetic engineering of mosquitoes using
_piggyBac_ and CRISPR/Cas9.

### Other interests

I am passionate about film, especially "World Cinema".

As a scientist, I am committed to pursuing responsible science and using
science and technology to contribute towards creating a sustainable,
peaceful, and just society. I am interested in promoting gender
equality, nuclear disarmament, and encouraging the scientific community
to end support for arms manufacturers and polluting industries. As a
non-specialist, I also have a strong interest in a number of social and
political issues including migrant and refugee solidarity, antiracist
and antifascist activities, and homelessness support.


<a rel="me" href="https://scholar.social/@joeturner">Mastodon</a>
