---
layout: post
title:  "Paper published: mosquito sex determination"
date:   2018-10-23 13:00:00 +0100
categories: jekyll update
permalink: /posts/Nix-paper.html
---

The preprint on the genomics of the male-determining, Y chromosome-like M locus in the
mosquito _Aedes aegypti_ is now published in the journal _Parasites & Vectors_.

[The sequence of a male-specific genome region containing the sex determination switch in
_Aedes
aegypti_](https://parasitesandvectors.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s13071-018-3090-3
) [(PDF)](https://joeturner.eu/presentations/Turner_2018.pdf)

In this study, we searched a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) library of the mosquito
genome for the previously identified male gene _Nix_, and sequenced a small portion of the
surrounding DNA. This allowed us to decipher more of the nature of this mysterious
section of the genome.


> ### Abstract
> 
> ##### Background
> Aedes aegypti is the principal vector of several important arboviruses. Among the methods
> of vector control to limit transmission of disease are genetic strategies that involve the
> release of sterile or genetically modified non-biting males, which has generated interest
> in manipulating mosquito sex ratios. Sex determination in Ae. aegypti is controlled by a
> non-recombining Y chromosome-like region called the M locus, yet characterisation of this
> locus has been thwarted by the repetitive nature of the genome. In 2015, an M locus gene
> named Nix was identified that displays the qualities of a sex determination switch.
> ##### Results
> With the use of a whole-genome bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) library, we amplified
> and sequenced a ~200 kb region containing the male-determining gene Nix. In this study, we
> show that Nix is comprised of two exons separated by a 99 kb intron primarily composed of
> repetitive DNA, especially transposable elements. 
> ##### Conclusions
> Nix, an unusually large and highly repetitive gene, exhibits features in common with Y
> chromosome genes in other organisms. We speculate that the lack of recombination at the M
> locus has allowed the expansion of repeats in a manner characteristic of a sex-limited
> chromosome, in accordance with proposed models of sex chromosome evolution in insects.